Route 53 is domain name system (DNS) and it is used to map domain names to IP addresses.
Applications :
            1. register domain name 
            2. create set of records for a domain name like A , CNAME
            3. implement traffic flow
            4. moniter health check
            

we can route traffic from ruote 53 to 

        Elastic Load Balancer
        EC2 instance
        API Gateway
        Cloud Front for static content of s3
        elastic IP 
        Elastic Beanstalk
        VPC Endpoint

Record Sets :
            it allows to point naked domain or subdomain to a  IP or other services or other domain name

    A Record : used to point a domain name to a IP4 address
    AAAA Record : used to point a domain name to a IP6 address
    CNAME : used to point a domain name to another domain name
    MX : used to point a domain name to a mail server
    NS : used to point a domain name to a name server
    PTR : used to point a IP address to a domain name
    SOA : used to point a domain name to a start of authority
    SRV : used to point a domain name to a service
    TXT : used to point a domain name to a text
    CAA : used to point a domain name to a certificate authority


AWS Alias Record which are smarter than normal records can be used point to specific services ad it can detect change in ip and continuously keeps endpoint up to date.

TTL (time to live ) is a time interval that specifies how long a DNS record should be cached before it expires.

Routing Policies :

    1. Simple routing       default routing policy , multiple ip addresses in record results in random selection 
    2. Weighted routing     based on weighted value to split traffic
    3. Latency routing      direct traffic to the endpoint with the lowest latency based on region , requires application hosted in EC2 with in each regions 
    4. Multi-value answer routing     
    5. Geo-routing                 based on geo location of user
    6. failover routing 

we can manage routing policy easily using visual editor , costs 50$ per policy per month
