Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides re-sizeable compute capacity in the cloud. 
It is designed to make web-scale-cloud computing-easier for developers.

EC2 is back bone of aws because many of the services uses ec2 for their purpoes like S3 , RDS , Lambda

Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. 
It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment.
Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides re-sizeable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale-cloud computing-easier for developers.

Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. 
It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

it provides Virtual servers in the Cloud.

Spot instances are cheap, but they are only for Applications that have flexible start and end times, Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices, or Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity.

An Amazon Machine Image (AMI) provides the information required to launch an instance, which is a virtual server in the cloud. You specify an AMI when you launch an instance, and you can launch as many instances from the AMI as you need. You can also launch instances from as many different AMIs as you need.


AWS lightsail is a web service that provides a fully managed, high-performance platform for hosting your websites and applications.
it is simpler version of Amazon EC2

Aws has Nitro sytem which is combination of dedicated hardware and lightweight hardware enabling faster innovation and enhancd security.
all new ec2 instances has this nitro system 

                            ------      Image       ------

        image is snapshot of the instance at a particular time. it includes all the files and data of the instance at that time.
        create image using ->
                        select ec2 instance -> action -> image and template -> create image

            *  This created image will be private and only available in that region where it was created.
                    to share it with other regions, select action -> copy AMI then select regions to where this image should be there 

                            ------      Launch Template       ------

        Use launch templates to automate instance launches, simplify permission policies, and enforce best practices across your organization. 
        Save launch parameters in a template that can be used for on-demand launches and with managed services, including EC2 Auto Scaling and EC2 Fleet. 
        Easily update your launch parameters by creating a new launch template version.

        we can create launch template from running ec2 instance or from image.

        it contains "AMI id ,instance type , key-pair , subnet , security group , attached storage" information to lauch the instance.

        we can also configure IAM role to instance in launch template.

        every modification of launch template will create a new version of launch template.


EC2 pricing depends on :
    AMI Type
    Instance Type
    Region

AWS requires a minimum 1-year term, and a successful billing history is needed before you can purchase No Upfront Reserved Instances.
AWS requires a minimum 1-year term on their contracts for reserved instances.

EC2 Pricing Model :

    1. On Demand instances  =  flexible , pay per hour , for short term , spiky/unpredictible wrokloads

    2. Reserved Instances (upto 75% savings) = for steady use , reserved upto 1 to 3 years , can be resell if not used , can not upgrade/ downgrade capacity
                                                convertible reserved (upto 50% savings) = can be upgrade capacity

    3. Spot Instances (upto 90% savings)  = for non-critical workloads , for testing , pay as you go 

    4. Dedicated    =  whole dedicated server , most expenive , single tenant (no sharing of resources) , can be on-demand/reserved

    5. AWS saving plan


Diff EC2 families :

    1. General purpoes :

        General purpose instances provide a balance of compute, memory and networking resources, and can be used for a variety of diverse workloads. 
        These instances are ideal for applications that use these resources in equal proportions such as web servers and code repositories. 

            A1 family :
                 A1 instances are the first EC2 instances powered by AWS Graviton Processors that feature 64-bit Arm Neoverse cores and custom silicon designed by AWS.
                Enhanced Networking with Up to 10 Gbps of Network bandwidth
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System
              Use Cases:
                    Scale-out workloads such as web servers, containerized microservices, caching fleets, and 
                        distributed data stores, as well as development environments
            M4 Family:
                2.3 GHz Intel Xeon® E5-2686 v4 (Broadwell) processors or 2.4 GHz Intel Xeon® E5-2676 v3 (Haswell) processors
                Balance of compute, memory, and network resources
              Use Cases
                    Small and mid-size databases, data processing tasks that require additional memory, caching fleets, and 
                    for running backend servers for SAP, Microsoft SharePoint, cluster computing, and other enterprise applications.

            M5 Family:
                M5 instances are the latest generation of General Purpose Instances powered by Intel Xeon® Platinum 8175M
                Up to 3.1 GHz Intel Xeon® Platinum 8175M processors with new Intel Advanced Vector Extension (AVX-512) instruction set
                Up to 25 Gbps network bandwidth using Enhanced Networking
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System
              Use case :  same as m4 but with more memory and more power

            M5a Family:
                AMD EPYC 7000 series processors with an all core turbo clock speed of 2.5 GHz
                Up to 20 Gbps network bandwidth 
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System
              Use case : same as m5 but with more power less cost and different processor

            M5n Family:
                maximum single core turbo frequency of 3.5 GHz 
                100 Gbps of network bandwidth on the largest instance size
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System
              Use case : same as m5 but with more networking capabilites

            M5zn Family:
                2nd Generation Intel Xeon Scalable Processors (Cascade Lake) with an all-core turbo frequency up to 4.5 GHz
                Up to 19 Gbps to the Amazon Elastic Block Storage
              Use case :  
                ideal fit for applications that benefit from extremely high single-thread performance and high throughput, 
                low latency networking, such as gaming, High Performance Computing, and simulation modeling for the automotive,
                 aerospace, energy, and telecommunication industries.
            
            M6 Family:
                cost effective than M5 family with just minimal performance down
                all M6 are powered by aws nitro system

                M6a Family => 35% better compute price performance over M5a
                M6i Family =>  15% better compute price performance,20% higher memory bandwidth per vCPU over M5
                M6g Family =>  AWS Graviton2 Processor with 64-bit Arm Neoverse cores
                   
            T2 family : 

                High frequency Intel Xeon processors
                Low-cost general purpose instance type, and Free Tier eligible*
              Use Cases
                    Websites and web applications, development environments, build servers, code repositories, micro services, 
                    test and staging environments

            T3 family :
                Burstable CPU, governed by CPU Credits, and consistent baseline performance
                powered by the AWS Nitro System
                up to a 30% price performance improvement over T2 instances
              Use cases:
                Use Cases:
                    Micro-services, low-latency interactive applications, small and medium databases, virtual desktops, 
                    development environments

            T3a family :
                T3a instances deliver up to 10% cost savings over T3 instances
                MD EPYC 7000 series processors with an all core turbo clock speed of 2.5 GHz
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System

            T4 family :
                 Arm-based AWS Graviton2 processors and deliver up to 40% better price performance over T3
              use case :
                    Micro-services, low-latency interactive applications, small and medium databases
            
            MAC family :
                powered by Apple Mac mini computers and built on the AWS Nitro System
                Intel core i7 processors with 3.2 GHz (4.6 GHz turbo)
                Mac instances are dedicated, bare-metal instances
              use case :
                    Use Cases
                        Developing, building, testing, and signing iOS, iPadOS, macOS, WatchOS, and tvOS applications on the Xcode IDE


    2. Compute Optimized
                Compute Optimized instances are ideal for compute bound applications that benefit from high performance processors.
                 Instances belonging to this family are well suited for batch processing workloads, media transcoding, 
                 high performance web servers, high performance computing (HPC), scientific modeling, dedicated gaming servers and 
                 ad server engines, machine learning inference and other compute intensive applications.

            C4 family :
                optimized for compute-intensive workloads and deliver very cost-effective high performance at a low price per compute ratio.
                High frequency Intel Xeon E5-2666 v3
              use case :
                    High performance front-end fleets, web-servers, batch processing, distributed analytics, high performance science and engineering applications,

            C5 family :
                C5 instances offer a choice of processors based on the size of the instance.
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System
              Use case :
                    High performance web servers, scientific modelling, batch processing, distributed analytics, 
                    high-performance computing (HPC), machine/deep learning inference

            C6 family :
                Up to 3.6 GHz 3rd generation AMD EPYC processors
                Up to 15% better compute price performance over C5a instances
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System
                always-on memory encryption
         

            C7g family :
                Powered by custom built AWS Graviton3 processors
                20% higher enhanced networking bandwidth compared to C6g instances
                Powered by the AWS Nitro System


    3. Memory optimized :

            Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large data sets in memory.
           
        suppported by :
            R4 family
            R5 family
            R6 family
            X1 family
            X2 family
            u family  (upto 24 TB of RAM)
            Z1 family

    
    4. Accelerated Computing
        Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators, or co-processors, to perform functions, such as floating point
        number calculations, graphics processing, or data pattern matching, more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs.
        Conatin GPU tensors for high performance

            P2 family   (NVIDIA K80 GPUs)
            P3 family   (Up to 8 NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs, each pairing 5,120 CUDA Cores and 640 Tensor Cores)
            P4 family   (Up to 8 NVIDIA A100 Tensor Core GPUs)
            F1 family    (customizable hardware acceleration with field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs).)
            G3 family    (NVIDIA Tesla M60 GPUs, each with 2048 parallel processing cores and 8 GiB of video memory)
            inf1 family    ( support machine learning inference applications)
            trn1 family    (Trainium accelerators)

    5. Storage Optimized
            Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to very large
             data sets on local storage. 
            They are optimized to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random I/O operations per second (IOPS) to applications.

                L3 family 
                L4 family 
                D2 family 
                D3 family 
                H1 family 


Terminologies ;

    Amazon EC2 allows you to choose between Fixed Performance instance families (e.g. M6, C6, and R6) and 
    Burstable Performance Instance families (e.g. T3). Burstable Performance Instances provide a baseline level of CPU performance 
    with the ability to burst above the baseline.

    Many applications such as web servers, developer environments and small databases don’t need consistently high levels of CPU, 
    but benefit significantly from having full access to very fast CPUs when they need them. 
    T instances are engineered specifically for these use cases. 

    Nitro Hypervisor is a lightweight hypervisor that manages memory and CPU allocation and delivers performance that is
     indistinguishable from bare metal.




