"The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers.

Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. Large clouds often have functions distributed over multiple locations, each location being a data center.

Infrastructure as a service are online services that provide high-level APIs used to dereference various low-level details of underlying network infrastructure like physical computing resources, location, data partitioning, scaling, security, backup etc.
most of the CSP provides Iaas .
4 core of Iaas is :      1. Compute         2. networking       3. Storage / database         4. Configurations

Platform as a service (PaaS) is a cloud computing model where a third-party provider delivers hardware and software tools to users over the internet. Usually, these tools are needed for application development. A PaaS provider hosts the hardware and software on its own infrastructure.
e.g. AWS Elastic Beanstalk , Heroku

Software as a service is a software licensing and delivery model in which software is licensed on a subscription basis and is centrally hosted. SaaS is also known as "on-demand software" and Web-based/Web-hosted software. 
SaaS examples: BigCommerce, Google Apps, Salesforce, Dropbox, MailChimp, ZenDesk, DocuSign, Slack, Hubspot. 

Public Cloud : 

    A public cloud is a platform that uses the standard cloud computing model to make resources -- such as virtual machines, applications or storage -- available to users remotely. Public cloud services may be free or offered through a variety of subscription or on-demand pricing schemes, including a pay-per-usage model.

    Unlike private clouds, public clouds can save companies from the expensive costs of having to purchase, manage and maintain on-premises hardware and application infrastructure - the cloud service provider is held responsible for all management and maintenance of the system. Public clouds can also be deployed faster than on-premises infrastructures and with an almost infinitely scalable platform. Every employee of a company can use the same application from any office or branch using their device of choice as long as they can access the Internet. While security concerns have been raised over public cloud environments, when implemented correctly, the public cloud can be as secure as the most effectively managed private cloud implementation if the provider uses proper security methods, such as intrusion detection and prevention systems (IDPS).

    Advatages : Scalability , Lower capital 

    Best For : stratups , indivisuals 


Private Cloud(On - premises) :

    A private cloud is a cloud computing model where the cloud service provider is responsible for the hardware and software infrastructure. The cloud service provider is also responsible for the security of the cloud infrastructure. Private clouds are typically more expensive than public clouds, but they can be more flexible and can be deployed faster than public clouds. Private clouds can be deployed on-premises or in the cloud. e.g. Rackspace Openstack 

    Advatages : Security , flexibility , Greater control and customization

    Best For : Large companies , banks , Government 


Hybrid Cloud :

    A hybrid cloud is one in which applications are running in a combination of different environments. Hybrid cloud computing approaches are widespread because almost no one today relies entirely on the public cloud.

    Hybrid cloud refers to a mixed computing, storage, and services environment made up of on-premises infrastructure, private cloud services, and a public cloud—such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure—with orchestration among the various platforms. Using a combination of public clouds, on-premises computing, and private clouds in your data center means that you have a hybrid cloud infrastructure.

    Best For :   insurance companies  , hospitals , banks

Cross-Cloud :

    Devolop an software using different cloud services of different providers.

    like using AWS and Azure in the same project.

    Anthos is GCP's Control plane for compute across multiple providers 

Vertical scaling (or scaling up/down) is upgrading or downgrading the hardware, for example, upgrading the size of an instance from t2.micro to t2.medium. Vertical scaling is commonly used for databases.

Horizontal scaling (or scaling in/out) is increasing or decreasing the number of instances used by your application or system. For example, increasing the number of EC2 instances from 2 to 4. Horizontal scaling is commonly used for web applications

Elasticity – The ability to horizontally scale, meaning the ability to add or remove servers of the same size.

Scalability – The ability to horizontally or vertically scale.

12 business advantages of cloud computing.

    Cost Savings
    Security
    Flexibility
    Mobility
    Insight
    Increased Collaboration
    Quality Control
    Disaster Recovery
    Loss Prevention
    Automatic Software Updates
    Competitive Edge
    Sustainability

Core advantages : 1. reliability , 2. scalability , 3. high Availabilty    4. Elasticity

Disadvantages of cloud computing

    Downtime
    Security and privacy
    Vulnerability to attack
    Limited control and flexibility
    Vendor lock-in (hard to migrate to new cloud providers)
    Cost concerns


Cloud providing Companies : Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Rackspace , Digital Ocean etc.

CSP (Cloud Service Provider) : 

    A company that provides multiple cloud services
    that services chained together to form architecture.
    this services are accessible via API (like shell , management console etc)) 
    servies are billed according to the usage like per second , per hour etc.
    srvices has built in monitering system
    it offers IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service)
    Also offers IAC (Infrastructure as a Code) for Automation

        CSP provides all the above , if a company providing few of the services then it is just a cloud platform , like Twilio, harshicorp , databricks

        AWS , GCP , Azure , alibaba are tier 1 cloud providers that are actual CSP

        IBM cloud , Oracle cloud , Rackspace  are tier 2 CSP's that has specialised services in one of the domain

        Digital Ocean , Linode are tier 3 CSP's that offers core Iaas services that are simple and cost effective





Why AWS :

    AWS is CSP(Cloud Service Provider) launched in 2006
    in 2010 , all of amazon.com shifted to AWS
    CEO of AWS is Adam Selipsky (Former CTO at Tablue)

    using API we can interact aws services , we can use this api using management console , aws cli or aws SDK
    AWS SDK is available in most of programming languages like python ,c++ , ruby , java , javascript , php , node.js , GO etc. 

    Also aws offers IAC with aws cloudformation(declarative tool in JSON/YML) and cloud development kit(imperative tool)

    diff betn cdk and sdk is that cdk allows to make/remove resources while sdk allows to interact with resources directly.

    Highly available :
                service remain available by  ensuring no single point of failure and certain level of performance
                achieved by using multiple availability zones and Elastic load balancers

    High Scalability :

                increase capacity as per demand based on vertical/horiiontal scaling

    Highly Elastic :

                ability to scale up and down as per demand of traffic , memory and computation
                achieved using Auto Scaling groups 

    Highly fault tolerant :

                service remain available by  ensuring no single point of failure
                achieved by using copies in  multiple availability zones so that after one server is down , other server can still work
            
    Highly Durable :

                ability to recover from disaster and prevent data loss 
                achieved by using cloudEndure Disaster Recovery (replicates data in low cost storing area so that data is not lost)


    Iaas services :  1. Bare metal EC2 (dedicated physical machine)  2. EC2  3.  ECS (elastic container service)

    PaaS services :  1. Elastic beamstalk   

    Saas services  :  1. Amazon WorkDocs

    FaaS services :   1. AWS Lambda  

    CaaS service :  1. Aws Farget (serverless container)


-----------------------  Cloud Architect ------------------------------

The AWS Well-Architected Frameworkis a guide that is designed to help you build the most secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient infrastructure possible for your cloud applications and workloads. 
It provides a consistent approach to evaluate cloud architectures, and guidance to help implement designs.
 It documents a set of foundational questions and best practices that enable you to understand if a specific architecture aligns well with cloud best practices.

main building Pillers of AWS Well-Architected Framework is 

    Security   =>   Security pillar addresses the ability to protect information, systems, and assets while delivering business value through risk assessments and 
                    mitigation strategies ,  architecture will present a much stronger security presenceif you implement a strong identity foundation, enable traceability, 
                    apply security at all layers, automate security best practices, and protect data

    Operation excellance  =>   pillar addresses the ability to run systems and gain insight into their operations to deliver business value. 
                                It also addresses the ability to continuously improve supporting processes and procedures

    Performance efficiency   =>  choose efficient resources   , democratize advance technologies , apply Mechanical sympathy 
                                    that is when you use a tool or system with an understanding of how it operates best

    Cost     =>    process is iterative, and it should be refined and improved throughout your production lifetime. 
                    Understanding how efficient your current architecture is in relation to your goals can remove unneeded expense.

    reliability.    =>  addresses the ability of a system to recover from infrastructure or service disruptions and dynamically acquire computing resources to meet demand. 
                    It also addresses the ability of a system to mitigate disruptions such as misconfigurations or transient network issues












