A hypervisor (or virtual machine monitor, VMM, virtualizer) is a kind of emulator; it is computer software, firmware or hardware that creates and runs virtual machines. 
A computer on which a hypervisor runs one or more virtual machines is called a host machine, and each virtual machine is called a guest machine

firmware is a specific class of computer software that provides the low-level control for a device's specific hardware.
Firmware refers to software that has been permanently installed in a machine, device, or microchip, usually by the manufacturer
Software is most often meant to describe a program or piece of data that is meant to be viewed, changed or otherwise interacted with most often by the user.  Firmware is a term for a piece of software that is stored on a hardware device in order to make it run properly.
Firmware is low-level operations, whereas the OS is high-level interfaces. Firmware is used for a single purpose, but the OS is used for general purposes, which allows any kind of software to run on multiple types of hardware

Vmaware names its hypervisor as VMware ESXi (elastic sky) (formerly ESX)  an enterprise-class, type-1 , it is tool from a suite of vmware known as vsphere

microsoft uses hyperV

Oracle VM VirtualBox is a so-called hosted hypervisor, sometimes referred to as a type 2 hypervisor. Whereas a bare-metal or type 1 hypervisor would run directly on the hardware, Oracle VM VirtualBox requires an existing OS to be installed.

tyeps of hypervisor :

1] type1 also knows bare metal / native used by enterprices , it is a firmware and more secure
	directly placed on hardware without any os , on top of it virtual machines are created and on vm , os is installed , it acts as own os
	host -> type1 hypervisor -> VM -> guest os
	e.g. vmware ESXi , Hyper-V , xenserver

2] type2 also known as hosted used for learning , testing purpoes , it is a software
	run on top of the operating system (OS) of the host machine
	host -> host OS -> type2 hypervisor -> VM -> guest OS
	e.g vmware workstation

virtual machine :

	virtual machine is the virtualization/emulation of a computer system. Virtual machines are based on computer architectures and provide functionality of a physical computer. Their implementations may involve specialized hardware, software, or a combination. 

Container :

	A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another.
	container is scalable and can be used to run multiple applications on a single machine.

Functions :

	they are managed by providers , so it is also known as Serverless computing 
	we have just upload the function code and it will be executed by the provider

Just like virtual machines, containers allow developers to improve CPU and memory utilization of physical machines. Containers go even further, however, because they also enable microservice architectures, where application components can be deployed and scaled more granularly. This is an attractive alternative to having to scale up an entire monolithic application because a single component is struggling with load.