
                        ------         Auto Scaling Group         ------

    Auto Scaling groups are collections of Amazon EC2 instances that enable automatic scaling and fleet management features. 
    These features help you maintain the health and availability of your applications.

    
    AWS Auto Scaling enables you to configure automatic scaling for the scalable AWS resources for your application in a matter of minutes. 
    AWS Auto Scaling uses the Auto Scaling and Application Auto Scaling services to configure scaling policies for your scalable AWS resources.


    in order create ASG , we need launch configuration or launch template

    we need to set follwing parameters in launch configuration:
        1. VPC
        2. Subnet
        3. Group size  (min, max, desired[represent the initial group size])
        4. Scaling policies   ->  Target tracking scaling policy  
                                        | - Avg Cpu Utilization
                                        | -Avg network in
                                        | -Avg network out
                                        | - load balancer request per target
        5. notification      ->  scale up-down notification using SNS




                        ------         Elastic Load Balancer         ------

        target group tells a load balancer where to direct traffic to : EC2 instances, fixed IP addresses; or AWS Lambda functions, amongst others

        there are 3 types of load balancer (AWS retiring the EC2-Classic network Load Balancer ) :

            1. Application Load Balancer :

                    used for flexible application management
                    it is for HTTP, HTTPS, gRPC

            2. Network Load Balancer :
                    Choose a Network Load Balancer when need of ultra-high performance, TLS offloading at scale, 
                    centralized certificate deployment, support for UDP, and static IP addresses for applications

                    it is for TCP, UDP, and SSL/TLS
            
            3. Gateway Load Balancer :

                    it is for IP

            
        TO create Load Balancer follwing things need to configure :

            1. Schema          ->   Internet-facing(requires public subnet)   or   internal
            2. IP address type      ->  IPv4    OR      Dualstack (ip4 + ip6)
            3. VPC , Subnet , SG 
            4. Listeners and routing   -> listner listens to incoming protocol and port , 
                                            routing is for traffic routing based on listner


